Add documentation of security implications (#140)
typeshed-internal/stub_uploader: SECURITY.md

# Security Implication of the Typeshed Stub Uploader

Security for the stub uploader is of the highest importance. If the stub
uploader gets compromised, an attacker could upload manipulated stub
packages to gain full access to developer machines or even production hosts.
Considering the high trust, quick turnaround, and automated installation of
stub packages, this could have significant security implications.

## Maintainers

TBD

## Typeshed Data

> To ensure that a compromised typeshed repository can't lead to copromised

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure that a compromised typeshed repository can't lead to compromised
```

stub packages, all typeshed data is verified by the stub uploader before
building packages. The stub uploader ensures that only stub and metadata
files are added to the stub packages. This also means that no code from the
typeshed repository must be executed while building packages, and no
modules must be imported.

## Dependencies

Another possible attack vector are dependencies of stub packages.
A compromised dependency can have a similar effect to when a stub package
gets compromised directly. Therefore, only certain dependencies are
allowed:

* Dependencies on other stub packages created by typeshed.
* Dependencies on packages the upstream package depends on – even recursively.
  Since it's likely that a stub package gets installed alongside the
  upstream package, this does not introduce an additional security liability.
* Dependencies that are explicitly allowlisted in the stub uploader. These

>   dependencies are vetted to be from a trusted source.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to expand upon this and actually describe and explain the possible attack in https://github.com/typeshed-internal/stub_uploader/pull/61#discussion_r979327370. This kind of hints at how the attack goes, but IMO does not describe it in enough detail. It is the biggest security issue in stub_uploader I'm aware of, and typeshed maintainers need to be aware of it.

Author: I'd like to hold off documenting this here at the moment. I kept this section quite vague for the moment, mostly because I think we should resolve and implement #90 first and can then discuss the measures and reasons in this document.

Reviewer 2: Maybe:

```suggestion
  dependencies are vetted to be from a trusted source.

Having one global allowlist is not ideal, because it allows somewhat obscure
dependencies to be added to popular stub packages whose security matters
the most. This may be changed in the near future.
```

> # Security Implication of the Typeshed Stub Uploader

Reviewer: A SECURITY.md should by convention include a way to privately report security vulnerabilities. For typing-extensions (https://github.com/python/typing_extensions/blob/main/SECURITY.md), I redirected reports to GitHub's private reporting feature, but for this repo I don't have permissions to turn on that feature.

So I'd suggest:

- Someone with the right permissions (@ilevkivskyi?) should go to https://github.com/typeshed-internal/stub_uploader/security and turn on "Private vulnerability reporting"
- In this PR we should add a line saying that any vulnerabilities should be reported to https://github.com/typeshed-internal/stub_uploader/security

We should also add a SECURITY.md to the typeshed repo pointing here.

Reviewer 3: OK, I can do this later today, or @JukkaL should be able to do this.

Author: I've added such a section to the document for now, mostly taking the wording from typing-extension.

Reviewer 3: OK, I enabled "Private vulnerability reporting" for this repo.

Security for the stub uploader is of the highest importance. If the stub
uploader gets compromised, an attacker could upload manipulated stub
packages to gain full access to developer machines or even production hosts.
Considering the high trust, quick turnaround, and automated installation of
stub packages, this could have significant security implications.

## Maintainers

Only a small number of typeshed maintainers have commit rights for this
repository to minimize the attack vector in case of hacked accounts. This
is also the reason that this repository is part of a separate GitHub
organization and not the [python](https://github.com/python) or
[psf](https://github.com/psf) organizations, like typeshed is.

> Typeshed maintainers without commit right are still considered maintainers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typeshed maintainers without commit rights are still considered maintainers
```

packages to gain full access to developer machines or even production hosts.
Considering the high trust, quick turnaround, and automated installation of
stub packages, this could have significant security implications.

## Maintainers

Only a small number of typeshed maintainers have commit rights for this
repository to minimize the attack vector in case of hacked accounts. This
is also the reason that this repository is part of a separate GitHub
organization and not the [python](https://github.com/python) or
[psf](https://github.com/psf) organizations, like typeshed is.

Typeshed maintainers without commit rights are still considered maintainers
of the stub uploader and are encouraged to manage issues and send and review
pull requests.

## Typeshed Data

To ensure that a compromised typeshed repository can't lead to compromised
stub packages, all typeshed data is verified by the stub uploader before
building packages. The stub uploader ensures that only stub and metadata
files are added to the stub packages. This also means that no code from the
typeshed repository must be executed while building packages, and no
modules must be imported.

## Dependencies

> Another possible attack vector are dependencies of stub packages.

Reviewer 4: "Possible attack vector" is a singular noun

```suggestion
Another possible attack vector is dependencies of stub packages.
```

A compromised dependency can have a similar effect to when a stub package
gets compromised directly. Therefore, only certain dependencies are
allowed:

* Dependencies on other stub packages created by typeshed.
* Dependencies on packages the upstream package depends on – even recursively.
  Since it's likely that a stub package gets installed alongside the
  upstream package, this does not introduce an additional security liability.
* Dependencies that are explicitly allowlisted in the stub uploader. These
  dependencies are vetted to be from a trusted source.

## PyPI Uploads

Stub packages are uploaded to PyPI by the PyPI user
[typeshed_bot](https://pypi.org/user/typeshed_bot/) using an API token.
The packages are owned solely by that user, so that no other user can

> upload new versions of the packages, in case an account gets compromised.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
upload new versions of the packages, in case the account of a
maintainer becomes compromised.
```

To ensure that a compromised typeshed repository can't lead to compromised
stub packages, all typeshed data is verified by the stub uploader before
building packages. The stub uploader ensures that only stub and metadata
files are added to the stub packages. This also means that no code from the
typeshed repository must be executed while building packages, and no
modules must be imported.

## Dependencies

Another possible attack vector is dependencies of stub packages.
A compromised dependency can have a similar effect to when a stub package
gets compromised directly. Therefore, only certain dependencies are
allowed:

* Dependencies on other stub packages created by typeshed.
* Dependencies on packages the upstream package depends on – even recursively.
  Since it's likely that a stub package gets installed alongside the
  upstream package, this does not introduce an additional security liability.
* Dependencies that are explicitly allowlisted in the stub uploader. These
  dependencies are vetted to be from a trusted source.

## PyPI Uploads

Stub packages are uploaded to PyPI by the PyPI user
[typeshed_bot](https://pypi.org/user/typeshed_bot/) using an API token.

> The packages are owned solely by that user, so that no other user can
> upload new versions of the packages, in case the account of a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The packages are owned solely by that user, so that no other PyPI user can
upload new versions of the packages, in case the PyPI account of a
```

> maintainer becomes compromised.

Reviewer 2: Couldn't a maintainer account simply edit CI config to store the token somewhere? Or is this about maintainers who do not have commit access, like me?

Reviewer: I think it's about the PyPI accounts, not GitHub accounts. If a GitHub account with commit access (e.g., mine) gets compromised, it could obviously be used to upload a malicious package just by changing the code. But if someone compromises my PyPI account, they can't use it to upload malicious stub packages. (They could use it to upload a malicious version of typing-extensions, which is probably worse, but that's a different repo than this one.)
